hello i'm keith kendrick i'm the editor
of bbc good food magazine and i'm joined
today
by good foods resident drinks expert and
regular podcaster host
miriam nice to share with us her three
rules
for festive drinks happy christmas
miriam how are you doing happy christmas
i've just taken the christmas
decorations down actually so i feel like
it's january now
because we've been filming some
christmas cocktails but um yeah
a lot of people are putting their
christmas decorations up early as well
so it's uh
it's uh we want to get into the festive
spirit so you're here
to help us do that my word we all need a
drink at the moment so what are your
three rules for festive drinks
okay um so my first one because for me
uh when i think about festive drinks the
first thing we often
would have is a fizz so so
you know orange juice and champagne
fizzy wine of some kind so it might be
prosecco
it might be carver um but i think about
six o'clock in the morning on christmas
yeah
number one minute you wake up like not
even goddamn no
when we have like presents or you know
sometimes it's kind of like around
lunchtime because we usually have our
christmas dinner in the evening
yeah um but yeah have books first kind
of mid mid morning lunch time
and i think using fresh citrus when
you're making cocktails at christmas is
super important like it will just make
your drinks
so much nicer i recently did a harvey
wool banger that we put in the what was
in the october issue actually
and it's on on bbc food.com and just
changing it from
um ready-made like orange juice to a
mixture
or freshly squeezed just will make all
the difference and do
blend them as well so oranges those
little oranges that we have
an abundance of for christmas um and a
bit of lemon juice as well so just make
your blend and then add that and it will
just
take it to like just kind of like lifts
it an extra zing
kind of real sharpness yeah it's like a
sharpness and a sweet but like a natural
sweetness
and um because sometimes the bottle
stuff can or the
the carton stuff can be a little bit
sort of sour and stand alone and i feel
that the fresh one if you can use it
it kind of blends in nicely and also
squeezing it you get a little bit of the
oils from the outside so you get extra
flavor
so yeah i would i would use fresh citrus
as much as you can
that's good for you to get in your
vitamin c
christmas day in a absolutely
so what's your second uh your second
rule for festive drinks
well this one is for kind of a lot of
all cocktails really and and other
drinks
is how important ice is like don't
scrimp
on on ice and using it um
when you put a handful of ice in your
cocktail shaker i really do
just put a good handful in it's not just
about cooling it down
it's the dilution so you kind of find
that the water that it gives off
is an ingredient in itself i mean if you
like
um whiskey like often if you put a
splash of water in there
and you'll notice a different flavor
profile some people like it some people
don't
but it does something to the drink it's
not just watering it down
it changes some of the way and that you
experience those flavors so
definitely use ice um and
yeah have lots of it so if you don't
want to buy a bag of ice i tend to
freeze lots of trays decant them into a
food bag or something food bag and then
keep that in the freezer so just get
into the habit of them
i need to replenish mine actually i keep
forgetting but yes keep a big bag of ice
in the freezer
i might die in another freezer just for
that tip
it's worth it and so what's the third
piece of advice a third rule for festive
drinks
um keep it simple and um
you can use things that are quite
flexible so i have done
a punch recipe in the december issue
which is a kind of all-purpose punch and
i've put in
spices a blend of juices and stuff and
that
that goes with loads of different
spirits so what you can do is make that
and then
you can add the spirit that you like and
it will bring out slightly different
notes and it tastes really good
without booze so it's really nice as
another yeah i mean alcohol free options
are
are important aren't they we don't all
want to be social on christmas day
but you do want to be in the in the
spirit
yeah especially if you're in charge of
doing the cooking i remember that being
i think it's one of barney's um
top tips and and lily's like if you're
going to um if you're going to be
cooking a christmas dinner maybe have
one less
one less glass of fizz um and then and
then
have them later but yeah um i really
i've got into um
non-alcoholic drinks are very popular at
the moment and i think having
um you know an alcoholic one in a
non-iconic one
or a low alcoholic that that kind of um
trend is quite big at the moment having
reduced one there's quite a few products
that have come out that are
like beers and and and also kind of
spirit alternatives that
are lower and in our gold content
they're very tasty it's nice let me ask
you one last question eggnog eggnog is a
he's an absolute classic christmas drink
um it's not necessarily the thing that
you want to be drinking all year and so
you may have some leftover what's a
great
use for leftover eggnog well i had a lot
left over because i've just done
a video um which hopefully will be um
popping out soon
and on how to make different types of
eggnog and there's only two of us in our
house
and during lockdown i can't really give
it away so i had to surf
of eggnog um and actually
it's great i mean it is kind of like
it's custard it's a lovely
slightly boozy um vanilla kind of
lovely cold custard and i put it in i
just had some leftover bread
soaked it in eggnog and actually then
poured the eggnog over the top as a kind
of
pouring cream as the dessert so just use
it and desserts pour it on your
christmas pudding
um yeah it's it's it's lovely like the
bread
and butter pudding kind of yes yeah yeah
and uh you can uh french toast as well
you could make a slightly boozy french
toast um
so just yeah do the same thing soak
bread in it and then i'll
add an egg um as well um if you need to
kind of bulk up a bit more
um especially if you've made um you know
a
there's also a there's a vegan one that
you can try so if you're not vegan and
you've made that one then you can just
add an extra egg in there and fry it
and then pour a bit more of it on top
that's really nice but you can do that
with them
uh irish and cream liqueur as well you
can you can put a
bit of that on desserts too i hate waste
exactly use everything yeah yeah because
we're going nowhere for a while are we
so let's just kind of you know make the
most of everything that we've got
yeah fantastic well if you like what
you've heard and want to know more
miriam is hosting a special webinar
about christmas cocktails very soon
so you can find out details about how to
sign up for that on the bbc
goodfood.com website well miriam also
writes a regular drinks page
in uh in good food every month and i
think coming up in january you're going
to be talking about a low alcohol drinks
uh
lyrium so uh look out for that one as
well fantastic thanks for joining me
and have a great christmas me too lovely
to talk to you bye